Prepare release 3.1.0 (#812)
open-formulieren/open-forms-sdk: CHANGELOG.rst

SDK Changelog
=============

> 3.1.0 (2025-03-24)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.1.0 (2025-03-31)
```

==================

Feature release

There are additional changes compared to the alpha versions. Continue reading for the full
changelog, which includes the alpha versions release notes.

.. warning:: SDK 3.1.0 requires the backend API version 3.1.0 or newer.

New features
------------

* [#4917] Changed placement of form "next", "previous", "continue later" and "log out"
  buttons.

> * [#445] Adopting typescript in the SDK project.
>     - Added typescript dependency and config files.
>     - Added @open-formulieren/formio-renderer 0.4.0 dependency.
>     - Replaced a number of form field components with components from the new
>       formio-renderer library.
>     - Replaced a number of components and functions to typescript variants.
>     - Added typescript definitions for Form and Submission data.
>     - Upgraded a number of dependencies.
>     - Upgraded to @open-formulieren/design-tokens 0.58.0.
>     - Upgraded to @utrecht/components 7.4.0.

Reviewer: Not a feature, but project maintenance.

```suggestion
* [#445] Started converting the codebase to Typescript.

    - Upgraded to @utrecht/components 7.4.0 in the process, which may affect (custom) CSS themes.

```

(can you also ensure there's a blank line in the older release notes for nested lists, now there's some bold markup, see https://open-forms.readthedocs.io/en/latest/changelog-sdk.html)

> * [#5046] The form start button will be hidden if the maximum number of submissions is
>   reached.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#5046] The form start button is now hidden if the maximum number of submissions is
  reached.
```

> * [#5033] Improved error message when service is unavailable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#5033] If there's an outage in an external service that we rely on, we now provide more useful feedback.
```

> * [#2177] The map component now supports placing a marker, line or polygon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#2177] You can now also draw lines and polygons on map components, in addition to point markers.
```

We'll have to make a decision about https://github.com/open-formulieren/open-forms/issues/5191 too because it seems a bit broken now

>     - Added leaflet-draw for user interactions.
>     - Refactored map component search input and 'nearest address' functionality to use
>       leaflet-draw.
>     - Changed map data from array to geoJson geometry, allowing the placement of markers,
>       lines and polygons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
irrelevant for the changelog :)

> * [#5003] AddressNL component styling update.
>     - Removed asterisk next to AddressNL component label. When the component is required,
>       only the field labels have an asterisk next to them.
>     - Aligned address styling with other components in the submission summary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#5003] AddressNL component styling update.

    - Removed asterisk next to AddressNL component label. When the component is required,
      only the field labels have an asterisk next to them.
    - Aligned address styling with other components in the submission summary.
```
I think we still need to repeat a disclaimer that AddressNL is still not ready for production use? It's somewhere in a changelog already.

Author: Yeah we have a disclaimer in the backend changelog of 2.8 👍

Bugfixes
--------

* [#5155] Fixed the url parameter "initial_data_reference" being lost after switching the
  form language.
* [#5086] Fixed soft-required component showing warnings for hidden fields.
* [#5038] Fixed missing map shapes in form submission summary.

> * Fixed build assets placed in a unexpected folder, causing build errors when connecting
>   to the backend.

Reviewer: Not worth mentioning, no production builds were affected by this.

```suggestion
```

> * [#4510] Fixed missing error messages in the submission summary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#4510] Fixed missing validation error messages in the submission summary.
```

* [#4699] Fixed AddressNL validation being triggered on page load, and a crash when the
  AddressNL component is hidden.

Project maintenance
-------------------

> * Upgraded CI configuration dependencies.
>     - Upgraded to jinja2 3.1.6.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Upgraded CI configuration dependencies.
    - Upgraded to jinja2 3.1.6.
```

I'd just add jinja to the list of upgraded dependencies further down.

> * Errors in error boundaries are captured with Sentry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Errors in error boundaries are now captured and sent to Sentry, if configured.
```

* Removed unused Sentry tracing.

> * [#76] i18n, lodash, map and appointment modules are now dynamically loaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#76] Optimized bundle to lazy load code until it's relevant.
```

> * [#4929] Restructured and upgraded React routing.
>     - Re-organized cosign, form, form start and appointment components.
>     - Removed unused code.
>     - Simplified form state management.
>     - Moved routing definitions and converted all dynamic routes to static.
>     - Updated storybook and vitest tests.
>     - Upgraded to React-Router 7.1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#4929] Restructured routes for and upgraded to react-router v7.
```

* Enabled Codecov JS bundle analysis.

> * Upgraded dependencies.
>     - Upgraded to Storybook 8.6.3.
>     - Upgraded to playwright 1.49.
>     - Upgraded to Vitest 3.0.
>     - Upgraded to Sentry 8.50.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Upgraded dependencies.

    - Upgraded to Storybook 8.6.3.
    - Upgraded to playwright 1.49.
    - Upgraded to Vitest 3.0.
    - Upgraded to Sentry 8.50.

```

* Separated storybook and Vitest coverage reporting.

> * Updated Docker Hub config file.

Author: Ah okay.. I think i copied that one from the 3.0 changelog, but i'll remove it 👍

> * [#724] Replaced CRA (Create-React-App) with ViteJS.
>     - Removed CRA scripts and configuration.
>     - Removed CRA from project dev dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#724] Replaced create-react-app build toolchain with ViteJS.
```
